AThe NIST Cybersecurity
Framework (CSF) 2.0
National Institute of Standards and Technology

This publication is available free of charge from: https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.29
February 26, 2024

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Abstract
The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0 provides guidance to industry, government
agencies, and other organizations to manage cybersecurity risks. It offers a taxonomy of highlevel cybersecurity outcomes that can be used by any organization — regardless of its size,
sector, or maturity — to better understand, assess, prioritize, and communicate its
cybersecurity efforts. The CSF does not prescribe how outcomes should be achieved. Rather, it
links to online resources that provide additional guidance on practices and controls that could
be used to achieve those outcomes. This document describes CSF 2.0, its components, and
some of the many ways that it can be used.
Keywords
cybersecurity; Cybersecurity Framework (CSF); cybersecurity risk governance; cybersecurity risk
management; enterprise risk management; Profiles; Tiers.
Audience
Individuals responsible for developing and leading cybersecurity programs are the primary
audience for the CSF. The CSF can also be used by others involved in managing risk — including
executives, boards of directors, acquisition professionals, technology professionals, risk
managers, lawyers, human resources specialists, and cybersecurity and risk management
auditors — to guide their cybersecurity-related decisions. Additionally, the CSF can be useful to
those making and influencing policy (e.g., associations, professional organizations, regulators)
who set and communicate priorities for cybersecurity risk management.
Supplemental Content
NIST will continue to build and host additional resources to help organizations implement the
CSF, including Quick Start Guides and Community Profiles. All resources are made publicly
available on the NIST CSF website. Suggestions for additional resources to reference on the
NIST CSF website can always be shared with NIST at cyberframework@nist.gov.
Note to Readers
Unless otherwise noted, documents cited, referenced, or excerpted in this publication are not
wholly incorporated into this publication.
Before version 2.0, the Cybersecurity Framework was called the “Framework for Improving
Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity.” This title is not used for CSF 2.0.

i

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Acknowledgments
The CSF is the result of a multi-year collaborative effort across industry, academia, and
government in the United States and around the world. NIST acknowledges and thanks all of
those who have contributed to this revised CSF. Information on the CSF development process
can be found on the NIST CSF website. Lessons learned about the use of the CSF can always be
shared with NIST at cyberframework@nist.gov.

ii

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Table of Contents
1. Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) Overview .......................................................................................1
2. Introduction to the CSF Core ...........................................................................................................3
3. Introduction to CSF Profiles and Tiers .............................................................................................6

4. Introduction to Online Resources That Supplement the CSF ............................................................9
5. Improving Cybersecurity Risk Communication and Integration ......................................................10

Appendix A. CSF Core .......................................................................................................................15
Appendix B. CSF Tiers .......................................................................................................................24
Appendix C. Glossary .......................................................................................................................26

List of Figures
Fig. 1. CSF Core structure ....................................................................................................................3
Fig. 2. CSF Functions ...........................................................................................................................5
Fig. 3. Steps for creating and using a CSF Organizational Profile ...........................................................6
Fig. 4. CSF Tiers for cybersecurity risk governance and management ...................................................8
Fig. 5. Using the CSF to improve risk management communication....................................................10
Fig. 6. Cybersecurity and privacy risk relationship .............................................................................13

iii

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Preface
The Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0 is designed to help organizations of all sizes and sectors
— including industry, government, academia, and nonprofit — to manage and reduce their
cybersecurity risks. It is useful regardless of the maturity level and technical sophistication of an
organization’s cybersecurity programs. Nevertheless, the CSF does not embrace a one-size-fitsall approach. Each organization has both common and unique risks, as well as varying risk
appetites and tolerances, specific missions, and objectives to achieve those missions. By
necessity, the way organizations implement the CSF will vary.
Ideally, the CSF will be used to address cybersecurity risks alongside other risks of the
enterprise, including those that are financial, privacy, supply chain, reputational, technological,
or physical in nature.
The CSF describes desired outcomes that are intended to be understood by a broad audience,
including executives, managers, and practitioners, regardless of their cybersecurity expertise.
Because these outcomes are sector-, country-, and technology-neutral, they provide an
organization with the flexibility needed to address their unique risks, technologies, and mission
considerations. Outcomes are mapped directly to a list of potential security controls for
immediate consideration to mitigate cybersecurity risks.
Although not prescriptive, the CSF assists its users in learning about and selecting specific
outcomes. Suggestions for how specific outcomes may be achieved are provided in an
expanding suite of online resources that complement the CSF, including a series of Quick Start
Guides (QSGs). Also, various tools offer downloadable formats to help organizations that
choose to automate some of their processes. The QSGs suggest initial ways to use the CSF and
invite the reader to explore the CSF and related resources in greater depth. Available through
the NIST CSF website, the CSF and these supplementary resources from NIST and others should
be viewed as a “CSF portfolio” to help manage and reduce risks. Regardless of how it is applied,
the CSF prompts its users to consider their cybersecurity posture in context and then adapt the
CSF to their specific needs.
Building on previous versions, CSF 2.0 contains new features that highlight the importance of
governance and supply chains. Special attention is paid to the QSGs to ensure that the CSF is
relevant and readily accessible by smaller organizations as well as their larger counterparts.
NIST now provides Implementation Examples and Informative References, which are available
online and updated regularly. Creating current and target state Organizational Profiles helps
organizations to compare where they are versus where they want or need to be and allows
them to implement and assess security controls more quickly.
Cybersecurity risks are expanding constantly, and managing those risks must be a continuous
process. This is true regardless of whether an organization is just beginning to confront its
cybersecurity challenges or whether it has been active for many years with a sophisticated,
well-resourced cybersecurity team. The CSF is designed to be valuable for any type of
organization and is expected to provide appropriate guidance over a long time.

iv

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

1. Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) Overview
This document is version 2.0 of the NIST Cybersecurity Framework (Framework or CSF). It
includes the following components:
•

CSF Core, the nucleus of the CSF, which is a taxonomy of high-level cybersecurity
outcomes that can help any organization manage its cybersecurity risks. The CSF Core
components are a hierarchy of Functions, Categories, and Subcategories that detail each
outcome. These outcomes can be understood by a broad audience, including
executives, managers, and practitioners, regardless of their cybersecurity expertise.
Because the outcomes are sector-, country-, and technology-neutral, they provide an
organization with the flexibility needed to address its unique risks, technologies, and
mission considerations.

•

CSF Organizational Profiles, which are a mechanism for describing an organization’s
current and/or target cybersecurity posture in terms of the CSF Core’s outcomes.

•

CSF Tiers, which can be applied to CSF Organizational Profiles to characterize the rigor of
an organization’s cybersecurity risk governance and management practices. Tiers can
also provide context for how an organization views cybersecurity risks and the processes
in place to manage those risks.

This document describes what desirable outcomes an organization can aspire to achieve. It
does not prescribe outcomes nor how they may be achieved. Descriptions of how an
organization can achieve those outcomes are provided in a suite of online resources that
complement the CSF and are available through the NIST CSF website. These resources offer
additional guidance on practices and controls that could be used to achieve outcomes and are
intended to help an organization understand, adopt, and use the CSF. They include:
•

Informative References that point to sources of guidance on each outcome from existing
global standards, guidelines, frameworks, regulations, policies, etc.

•

Implementation Examples that illustrate potential ways to achieve each outcome

•

Quick-Start Guides that give actionable guidance on using the CSF and its online
resources, including transitioning from previous CSF versions to version 2.0

•

Community Profiles and Organizational Profile Templates that help an organization put
the CSF into practice and set priorities for managing cybersecurity risks

An organization can use the CSF Core, Profiles, and Tiers with the supplementary resources to
understand, assess, prioritize, and communicate cybersecurity risks.
•

Understand and Assess: Describe the current or target cybersecurity posture of part or
all of an organization, determine gaps, and assess progress toward addressing those
gaps.

1

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

•

Prioritize: Identify, organize, and prioritize actions for managing cybersecurity risks that
align with the organization’s mission, legal and regulatory requirements, and risk
management and governance expectations.

•

Communicate: Provide a common language for communicating inside and outside the
organization about cybersecurity risks, capabilities, needs, and expectations.

The CSF is designed to be used by organizations of all sizes and sectors, including industry,
government, academia, and nonprofit organizations, regardless of the maturity level of their
cybersecurity programs. The CSF is a foundational resource that may be adopted voluntarily
and through governmental policies and mandates. The CSF’s taxonomy and referenced
standards, guidelines, and practices are not country-specific, and previous versions of the CSF
have been leveraged successfully by many governments and other organizations both inside
and outside of the United States.
The CSF should be used in conjunction with other resources (e.g., frameworks, standards,
guidelines, leading practices) to better manage cybersecurity risks and inform the overall
management of information and communications technology (ICT) risks at an enterprise level.
The CSF is a flexible framework that is intended to be tailored for use by all organizations
regardless of size. Organizations will continue to have unique risks — including different threats
and vulnerabilities — and risk tolerances, as well as unique mission objectives and
requirements. Thus, organizations’ approaches to managing risks and their implementations of
the CSF will vary.
The remainder of this document is structured as follows:
•

Section 2 explains the basics of the CSF Core: Functions, Categories, and Subcategories.

•

Section 3 defines the concepts of CSF Profiles and Tiers.

•

Section 4 provides an overview of selected components of the CSF’s suite of online
resources: Informative References, Implementation Examples, and Quick Start Guides.

•

Section 5 discusses how an organization can integrate the CSF with other risk
management programs.

•

Appendix A is the CSF Core.

•

Appendix B contains a notional illustration of the CSF Tiers.

•

Appendix C is a glossary of CSF terminology.

2

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

2. Introduction to the CSF Core
Appendix A is the CSF Core — a set of cybersecurity outcomes arranged by Function, then
Category, and finally Subcategory, as depicted in Fig. 1. These outcomes are not a checklist of
actions to perform; specific actions taken to achieve an outcome will vary by organization and
use case, as will the individual responsible for those actions. Additionally, the order and size of
Functions, Categories, and Subcategories in the Core does not imply the sequence or
importance of achieving them. The structure of the Core is intended to resonate most with
those charged with operationalizing risk management within an organization.

Fig. 1. CSF Core structure

The CSF Core Functions — GOVERN, IDENTIFY, PROTECT, DETECT, RESPOND, and RECOVER — organize
cybersecurity outcomes at their highest level.
•

GOVERN (GV) — The organization’s cybersecurity risk management strategy,
expectations, and policy are established, communicated, and monitored. The GOVERN
Function provides outcomes to inform what an organization may do to achieve and
prioritize the outcomes of the other five Functions in the context of its mission and
stakeholder expectations. Governance activities are critical for incorporating
cybersecurity into an organization’s broader enterprise risk management (ERM)
strategy. GOVERN addresses an understanding of organizational context; the
establishment of cybersecurity strategy and cybersecurity supply chain risk
management; roles, responsibilities, and authorities; policy; and the oversight of
cybersecurity strategy.

•

IDENTIFY (ID) — The organization’s current cybersecurity risks are understood.
Understanding the organization’s assets (e.g., data, hardware, software, systems,
facilities, services, people), suppliers, and related cybersecurity risks enables an
organization to prioritize its efforts consistent with its risk management strategy and the
mission needs identified under GOVERN. This Function also includes the identification of
3

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

improvement opportunities for the organization’s policies, plans, processes, procedures,
and practices that support cybersecurity risk management to inform efforts under all six
Functions.
•

PROTECT (PR) — Safeguards to manage the organization’s cybersecurity risks are used.
Once assets and risks are identified and prioritized, PROTECT supports the ability to
secure those assets to prevent or lower the likelihood and impact of adverse
cybersecurity events, as well as to increase the likelihood and impact of taking
advantage of opportunities. Outcomes covered by this Function include identity
management, authentication, and access control; awareness and training; data security;
platform security (i.e., securing the hardware, software, and services of physical and
virtual platforms); and the resilience of technology infrastructure.

•

DETECT (DE) — Possible cybersecurity attacks and compromises are found and analyzed.
DETECT enables the timely discovery and analysis of anomalies, indicators of
compromise, and other potentially adverse events that may indicate that cybersecurity
attacks and incidents are occurring. This Function supports successful incident response
and recovery activities.

•

RESPOND (RS) — Actions regarding a detected cybersecurity incident are taken. RESPOND
supports the ability to contain the effects of cybersecurity incidents. Outcomes within
this Function cover incident management, analysis, mitigation, reporting, and
communication.

•

RECOVER (RC) — Assets and operations affected by a cybersecurity incident are restored.
RECOVER supports the timely restoration of normal operations to reduce the effects of
cybersecurity incidents and enable appropriate communication during recovery efforts.

While many cybersecurity risk management activities focus on preventing negative events
from occurring, they may also support taking advantage of positive opportunities. Actions to
reduce cybersecurity risk might benefit an organization in other ways, like increasing
revenue (e.g., first offering excess facility space to a commercial hosting provider for hosting
their own and other organizations’ data centers, then moving a major financial system from
the organization’s in-house data center to the hosting provider to reduce cybersecurity
risks).
Figure 2 shows the CSF Functions as a wheel because all of the Functions relate to one another.
For example, an organization will categorize assets under IDENTIFY and take steps to secure
those assets under PROTECT. Investments in planning and testing in the GOVERN and IDENTIFY
Functions will support timely detection of unexpected events in the DETECT Function, as well as
enabling incident response and recovery actions for cybersecurity incidents in the RESPOND and
RECOVER Functions. GOVERN is in the center of the wheel because it informs how an organization
will implement the other five Functions.

4

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Fig. 2. CSF Functions

The Functions should be addressed concurrently. Actions that support GOVERN, IDENTIFY, PROTECT,
and DETECT should all happen continuously, and actions that support RESPOND and RECOVER
should be ready at all times and happen when cybersecurity incidents occur. All Functions have
vital roles related to cybersecurity incidents. GOVERN, IDENTIFY, and PROTECT outcomes help
prevent and prepare for incidents, while GOVERN, DETECT, RESPOND, and RECOVER outcomes help
discover and manage incidents.
Each Function is named after a verb that summarizes its contents. Each Function is divided into
Categories, which are related cybersecurity outcomes that collectively comprise the Function.
Subcategories further divide each Category into more specific outcomes of technical and
management activities. The Subcategories are not exhaustive, but they describe detailed
outcomes that support each Category.
The Functions, Categories, and Subcategories apply to all ICT used by an organization, including
information technology (IT), the Internet of Things (IoT), and operational technology (OT). They
also apply to all types of technology environments, including cloud, mobile, and artificial
intelligence systems. The CSF Core is forward-looking and intended to apply to future changes
in technologies and environments.

5

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

3. Introduction to CSF Profiles and Tiers
This section defines the concepts of CSF Profiles and Tiers.
3.1. CSF Profiles
A CSF Organizational Profile describes an organization’s current and/or target cybersecurity
posture in terms of the Core’s outcomes. Organizational Profiles are used to understand, tailor,
assess, prioritize, and communicate the Core’s outcomes by considering an organization’s
mission objectives, stakeholder expectations, threat landscape, and requirements. An
organization can then prioritize its actions to achieve specific outcomes and communicate that
information to stakeholders.
Every Organizational Profile includes one or both of the following:
1. A Current Profile specifies the Core outcomes that an organization is currently achieving
(or attempting to achieve) and characterizes how or to what extent each outcome is
being achieved.
2. A Target Profile specifies the desired outcomes that an organization has selected and
prioritized for achieving its cybersecurity risk management objectives. A Target Profile
considers anticipated changes to the organization’s cybersecurity posture, such as new
requirements, new technology adoption, and threat intelligence trends.
A Community Profile is a baseline of CSF outcomes that is created and published to address
shared interests and goals among a number of organizations. A Community Profile is
typically developed for a particular sector, subsector, technology, threat type, or other use
case. An organization can use a Community Profile as the basis for its own Target Profile.
Examples of Community Profiles can be found on the NIST CSF website.
The steps shown in Fig. 3 and summarized below illustrate one way that an organization could
use an Organizational Profile to help inform continuous improvement of its cybersecurity.

Fig. 3. Steps for creating and using a CSF Organizational Profile

6

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

1. Scope the Organizational Profile. Document the high-level facts and assumptions on
which the Profile will be based to define its scope. An organization can have as many
Organizational Profiles as desired, each with a different scope. For example, a Profile
could address an entire organization or be scoped to an organization’s financial systems
or to countering ransomware threats and handling ransomware incidents involving
those financial systems.
2. Gather the information needed to prepare the Organizational Profile. Examples of
information may include organizational policies, risk management priorities and
resources, enterprise risk profiles, business impact analysis (BIA) registers, cybersecurity
requirements and standards followed by the organization, practices and tools (e.g.,
procedures and safeguards), and work roles.
3. Create the Organizational Profile. Determine what types of information the Profile
should include for the selected CSF outcomes, and document the needed information.
Consider the risk implications of the Current Profile to inform Target Profile planning
and prioritization. Also, consider using a Community Profile as the basis for the Target
Profile.
4. Analyze the gaps between the Current and Target Profiles, and create an action plan.
Conduct a gap analysis to identify and analyze the differences between the Current and
Target Profiles, and develop a prioritized action plan (e.g., risk register, risk detail report,
Plan of Action and Milestones [POA&M]) to address those gaps.
5. Implement the action plan, and update the Organizational Profile. Follow the action
plan to address the gaps and move the organization toward the Target Profile. An action
plan may have an overall deadline or be ongoing.
Given the importance of continual improvement, an organization can repeat these steps as
often as needed.
There are additional uses for Organizational Profiles. For example, a Current Profile can be used
to document and communicate the organization’s cybersecurity capabilities and known
opportunities for improvement with external stakeholders, such as business partners or
prospective customers. Also, a Target Profile can help express the organization’s cybersecurity
risk management requirements and expectations to suppliers, partners, and other third parties
as a target for those parties to achieve.
3.2. CSF Tiers
An organization can choose to use the Tiers to inform its Current and Target Profiles. Tiers
characterize the rigor of an organization’s cybersecurity risk governance and management
practices, and they provide context for how an organization views cybersecurity risks and the
processes in place to manage those risks. The Tiers, as shown in Fig. 4 and notionally illustrated
in Appendix B, reflect an organization’s practices for managing cybersecurity risk as Partial (Tier
1), Risk Informed (Tier 2), Repeatable (Tier 3), and Adaptive (Tier 4). The Tiers describe a
progression from informal, ad hoc responses to approaches that are agile, risk-informed, and

7

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

continuously improving. Selecting Tiers helps set the overall tone for how an organization will
manage its cybersecurity risks.

Fig. 4. CSF Tiers for cybersecurity risk governance and management

Tiers should complement an organization’s cybersecurity risk management methodology rather
than replace it. For example, an organization can use the Tiers to communicate internally as a
benchmark for an organization-wide 1 approach to managing cybersecurity risks. Progression to
higher Tiers is encouraged when risks or mandates are greater or when a cost-benefit analysis
indicates a feasible and cost-effective reduction of negative cybersecurity risks.
The NIST CSF website provides additional information on using Profiles and Tiers. It includes
pointers to NIST-hosted Organizational Profile templates and a repository of Community
Profiles in a variety of machine-readable and human-usable formats.

1 For the purposes of this document, the terms “organization-wide” and “enterprise” have the same meaning.

8

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

4. Introduction to Online Resources That Supplement the CSF
NIST and other organizations have produced a suite of online resources that help organizations
understand, adopt, and use the CSF. Since they are hosted online, these additional resources
can be updated more frequently than this document, which is updated infrequently to provide
stability to its users, and be available in machine-readable formats. This section provides an
overview of three types of online resources: Informative References, Implementation Examples,
and Quick Start Guides.
Informative References are mappings that indicate relationships between the Core and various
standards, guidelines, regulations, and other content. Informative References help inform how
an organization may achieve the Core’s outcomes. Informative References can be sector- or
technology-specific. They may be produced by NIST or another organization. Some Informative
References are narrower in scope than a Subcategory. For example, a particular control from SP
800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and Organizations, may be one of
many references needed to achieve the outcome described in one Subcategory. Other
Informative References may be higher-level, such as a requirement from a policy that partially
addresses numerous Subcategories. When using the CSF, an organization can identify the most
relevant Informative References.
Implementation Examples provide notional examples of concise, action-oriented steps to help
achieve the outcomes of the Subcategories. Verbs used to express Examples include share,
document, develop, perform, monitor, analyze, assess, and exercise. The Examples are not a
comprehensive list of all actions that could be taken by an organization to achieve an outcome,
nor do they represent a baseline of required actions to address cybersecurity risks.
Quick-Start Guides (QSGs) are brief documents on specific CSF-related topics and are often
tailored to specific audiences. QSGs can help an organization implement the CSF because they
distill specific portions of the CSF into actionable “first steps” that an organization can consider
on the path to improving their cybersecurity posture and management of associated risks. The
guides are revised in their own time frames, and new guides are added as needed.
Suggestions for new Informative References for CSF 2.0 can always be shared with NIST at
olir@nist.gov. Suggestions for other resources to reference on the NIST CSF website, including
additional QSG topics, should be directed to cyberframework@nist.gov.

9

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

5. Improving Cybersecurity Risk Communication and Integration
The CSF’s use will vary based on an organization’s unique mission and risks. With an
understanding of stakeholder expectations and risk appetite and tolerance (as outlined in
GOVERN), an organization can prioritize cybersecurity activities to make informed decisions
about cybersecurity expenditures and actions. An organization may choose to handle risk in one
or more ways — including mitigating, transferring, avoiding, or accepting negative risks and
realizing, sharing, enhancing, or accepting positive risks — depending on the potential impacts
and likelihoods. Importantly, an organization can use the CSF both internally to manage its
cybersecurity capabilities and externally to oversee or communicate with third parties.
Regardless of the CSF’s utilization, an organization may benefit from using the CSF as guidance
to help it understand, assess, prioritize, and communicate cybersecurity risks and the actions
that will manage those risks. The selected outcomes can be used to focus on and implement
strategic decisions to improve cybersecurity postures and maintain continuity of missionessential functions while taking priorities and available resources into account.
5.1. Improving Risk Management Communication
The CSF provides a basis for improved communication regarding cybersecurity expectations,
planning, and resources. The CSF fosters bidirectional information flow (as shown in the top
half of Fig. 5) between executives who focus on the organization’s priorities and strategic
direction and managers who manage specific cybersecurity risks that could affect the
achievement of those priorities. The CSF also supports a similar flow (as shown in the bottom
half of Fig. 5) between managers and the practitioners who implement and operate the
technologies. The left side of the figure indicates the importance of practitioners sharing their
updates, insights, and concerns with managers and executives.

Fig. 5. Using the CSF to improve risk management communication

10

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Preparing to create and use Organizational Profiles involves gathering information about
organizational priorities, resources, and risk direction from executives. Managers then
collaborate with practitioners to communicate business needs and create risk-informed
Organizational Profiles. Actions to close any gaps identified between the Current and Target
Profiles will be implemented by managers and practitioners and will provide key inputs into
system-level plans. As the target state is achieved throughout the organization — including
through controls and monitoring applied at the system level — the updated results can be
shared through risk registers and progress reports. As part of ongoing assessment, managers
gain insights to make adjustments that further reduce potential harms and increase potential
benefits.
The GOVERN Function supports organizational risk communication with executives. Executives’
discussions involve strategy, particularly how cybersecurity-related uncertainties might affect
the achievement of organizational objectives. These governance discussions support dialogue
and agreement about risk management strategies (including cybersecurity supply chain risk);
roles, responsibilities, and authorities; policies; and oversight. As executives establish
cybersecurity priorities and objectives based on those needs, they communicate expectations
about risk appetite, accountability, and resources. Executives are also responsible for
integrating cybersecurity risk management with ERM programs and lower-level risk
management programs (see Sec. 5.2). The communications reflected in the top half of Fig. 5 can
include considerations for ERM and the lower-level programs and, thus, inform managers and
practitioners.
The overall cybersecurity objectives set by executives are informed by and cascade to
managers. In a commercial entity, these may apply to a line-of-business or operating division.
For government entities, these may be division- or branch-level considerations. When
implementing the CSF, managers will focus on how to achieve risk targets through common
services, controls, and collaboration, as expressed in the Target Profile and improved through
the actions being tracked in the action plan (e.g., risk register, risk detail report, POA&M).
Practitioners focus on implementing the target state and measuring changes in operational risk
to help plan, carry out, and monitor specific cybersecurity activities. As controls are
implemented to manage risk at an acceptable level, practitioners provide managers and
executives with the information (e.g., key performance indicators, key risk indicators) they need
to understand the organization’s cybersecurity posture, make informed decisions, and maintain
or adjust the risk strategy accordingly. Executives can also combine this cybersecurity risk data
with information about other types of risk from across the organization. Updates to
expectations and priorities are included in updated Organizational Profiles as the cycle repeats.
5.2. Improving Integration with Other Risk Management Programs
Every organization faces numerous types of ICT risk (e.g., privacy, supply chain, artificial
intelligence) and may use frameworks and management tools that are specific to each risk.
Some organizations integrate ICT and all other risk management efforts at a high level by using
ERM, while others keep the efforts separate to ensure adequate attention on each. Small

11

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

organizations by their nature may monitor risk at the enterprise level, while larger companies
may maintain separate risk management efforts integrated into the ERM.
Organizations can employ an ERM approach to balance a portfolio of risk considerations,
including cybersecurity, and make informed decisions. Executives receive significant input
about current and planned risk activities as they integrate governance and risk strategies with
results from previous uses of the CSF. The CSF helps organizations to translate their
terminology for cybersecurity and cybersecurity risk management into general risk
management language that executives will understand.
NIST resources that describe the mutual relationship between cybersecurity risk management
and ERM include:
•

NIST Cybersecurity Framework 2.0 – Enterprise Risk Management Quick-Start Guide

•

NIST Interagency Report (IR) 8286, Integrating Cybersecurity and Enterprise Risk
Management (ERM)

•

IR 8286A, Identifying and Estimating Cybersecurity Risk for Enterprise Risk Management

•

IR 8286B, Prioritizing Cybersecurity Risk for Enterprise Risk Management

•

IR 8286C, Staging Cybersecurity Risks for Enterprise Risk Management and Governance
Oversight

•

IR 8286D, Using Business Impact Analysis to Inform Risk Prioritization and Response

•

SP 800-221, Enterprise Impact of Information and Communications Technology Risk:
Governing and Managing ICT Risk Programs Within an Enterprise Risk Portfolio

•

SP 800-221A, Information and Communications Technology (ICT) Risk Outcomes:
Integrating ICT Risk Management Programs with the Enterprise Risk Portfolio

An organization may also find the CSF beneficial for integrating cybersecurity risk management
with individual ICT risk management programs, such as:
•

Cybersecurity risk management and assessment: The CSF can be integrated with
established cybersecurity risk management and assessment programs, such as SP 80037, Risk Management Framework for Information Systems and Organizations, and SP
800-30, Guide for Conducting Risk Assessments from the NIST Risk Management
Framework (RMF). For an organization using the NIST RMF and its suite of publications,
the CSF can be used to complement the RMF’s approach to selecting and prioritizing
controls from SP 800-53, Security and Privacy Controls for Information Systems and
Organizations.

•

Privacy risks: While cybersecurity and privacy are independent disciplines, their
objectives overlap in certain circumstances, as illustrated in Fig. 6.

12

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Fig. 6. Cybersecurity and privacy risk relationship

Cybersecurity risk management is essential for addressing privacy risks related to the
loss of the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of individuals’ data. For example,
data breaches could lead to identity theft. However, privacy risks can also arise by
means that are unrelated to cybersecurity incidents.
An organization processes data to achieve mission or business purposes, which can
sometimes give rise to privacy events whereby individuals may experience problems as
a result of the data processing. These problems can be expressed in various ways, but
NIST describes them as ranging from dignity-type effects (e.g., embarrassment or
stigma) to more tangible harms (e.g., discrimination, economic loss, or physical harm).
The NIST Privacy Framework and Cybersecurity Framework can be used together to
address the different aspects of cybersecurity and privacy risks. Additionally, NIST’s
Privacy Risk Assessment Methodology (PRAM) has a catalog of example problems for
use in privacy risk assessments.
•

Supply chain risks: An organization can use the CSF to foster cybersecurity risk oversight
and communications with stakeholders across supply chains. All types of technology rely
on a complex, globally distributed, extensive, and interconnected supply chain
ecosystem with geographically diverse routes and multiple levels of outsourcing. This
ecosystem is composed of public- and private-sector entities (e.g., acquirers, suppliers,
developers, system integrators, external system service providers, and other
technology-related service providers) that interact to research, develop, design,
manufacture, acquire, deliver, integrate, operate, maintain, dispose of, and otherwise
utilize or manage technology products and services. These interactions are shaped and
influenced by technologies, laws, policies, procedures, and practices.
Given the complex and interconnected relationships in this ecosystem, supply chain risk
management (SCRM) is critical for organizations. Cybersecurity SCRM (C-SCRM) is a
systematic process for managing exposure to cybersecurity risk throughout supply
chains and developing appropriate response strategies, policies, processes, and
procedures. The Subcategories within the CSF C-SCRM Category [GV.SC] provide a
connection between outcomes that focus purely on cybersecurity and those that focus
13

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

on C-SCRM. SP 800-161r1 (Revision 1), Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management
Practices for Systems and Organizations, provides in-depth information on C-SCRM.
•

Risks from emerging technologies: As new technologies and new applications of
technology become available, new risks become clear. A contemporary example is
artificial intelligence (AI), which has cybersecurity and privacy risks, as well as many
other types of risk. The NIST Artificial Intelligence Risk Management Framework (AI
RMF) was developed to help address these risks. Treating AI risks alongside other
enterprise risks (e.g., financial, cybersecurity, reputational, and privacy) will yield a more
integrated outcome and organizational efficiencies. Cybersecurity and privacy risk
management considerations and approaches are applicable to the design, development,
deployment, evaluation, and use of AI systems. The AI RMF Core uses Functions,
Categories, and Subcategories to describe AI outcomes and help manage risks related to
AI.

14

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Appendix A. CSF Core
This appendix describes the Functions, Categories, and Subcategories of the CSF Core. Table 1
lists the CSF 2.0 Core Function and Category names and unique alphabetic identifiers. Each
Function name in the table is linked to its portion of the appendix. The order of Functions,
Categories, and Subcategories of the Core is not alphabetical; it is intended to resonate most
with those charged with operationalizing risk management within an organization. The
numbering of the Subcategories is intentionally not sequential; gaps in numbering indicate CSF
1.1 Subcategories that were relocated in CSF 2.0.
Table 1. CSF 2.0 Core Function and Category names and identifiers

Function

Category

Category Identifier

Govern (GV)

Organizational Context

GV.OC

Risk Management Strategy

GV.RM

Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities

GV.RR

Policy

GV.PO

Oversight

GV.OV

Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management

GV.SC

Asset Management

ID.AM

Risk Assessment

ID.RA

Improvement

ID.IM

Identity Management, Authentication, and Access Control

PR.AA

Awareness and Training

PR.AT

Data Security

PR.DS

Platform Security

PR.PS

Technology Infrastructure Resilience

PR.IR

Continuous Monitoring

DE.CM

Adverse Event Analysis

DE.AE

Incident Management

RS.MA

Incident Analysis

RS.AN

Incident Response Reporting and Communication

RS.CO

Incident Mitigation

RS.MI

Incident Recovery Plan Execution

RC.RP

Incident Recovery Communication

RC.CO

Identify (ID)

Protect (PR)

Detect (DE)
Respond (RS)

Recover (RC)

The CSF Core, Informative References, and Implementation Examples are available on the CSF
2.0 website and through the CSF 2.0 Reference Tool, which allows users to explore them and
export them in human- and machine-readable formats. The CSF 2.0 Core is also available in a
legacy format similar to that of CSF 1.1.

15

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

GOVERN (GV): The organization’s cybersecurity risk management strategy, expectations, and
policy are established, communicated, and monitored
•

Organizational Context (GV.OC): The circumstances — mission, stakeholder expectations,
dependencies, and legal, regulatory, and contractual requirements — surrounding the
organization’s cybersecurity risk management decisions are understood
o GV.OC-01: The organizational mission is understood and informs cybersecurity risk
management
o GV.OC-02: Internal and external stakeholders are understood, and their needs and
expectations regarding cybersecurity risk management are understood and considered
o GV.OC-03: Legal, regulatory, and contractual requirements regarding cybersecurity —
including privacy and civil liberties obligations — are understood and managed
o GV.OC-04: Critical objectives, capabilities, and services that external stakeholders
depend on or expect from the organization are understood and communicated
o GV.OC-05: Outcomes, capabilities, and services that the organization depends on are
understood and communicated

•

Risk Management Strategy (GV.RM): The organization’s priorities, constraints, risk
tolerance and appetite statements, and assumptions are established, communicated, and
used to support operational risk decisions
o GV.RM-01: Risk management objectives are established and agreed to by organizational
stakeholders
o GV.RM-02: Risk appetite and risk tolerance statements are established, communicated,
and maintained
o GV.RM-03: Cybersecurity risk management activities and outcomes are included in
enterprise risk management processes
o GV.RM-04: Strategic direction that describes appropriate risk response options is
established and communicated
o GV.RM-05: Lines of communication across the organization are established for
cybersecurity risks, including risks from suppliers and other third parties
o GV.RM-06: A standardized method for calculating, documenting, categorizing, and
prioritizing cybersecurity risks is established and communicated
o GV.RM-07: Strategic opportunities (i.e., positive risks) are characterized and are
included in organizational cybersecurity risk discussions

16

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

•

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities (GV.RR): Cybersecurity roles, responsibilities, and
authorities to foster accountability, performance assessment, and continuous improvement
are established and communicated
o GV.RR-01: Organizational leadership is responsible and accountable for cybersecurity
risk and fosters a culture that is risk-aware, ethical, and continually improving
o GV.RR-02: Roles, responsibilities, and authorities related to cybersecurity risk
management are established, communicated, understood, and enforced
o GV.RR-03: Adequate resources are allocated commensurate with the cybersecurity risk
strategy, roles, responsibilities, and policies
o GV.RR-04: Cybersecurity is included in human resources practices

•

Policy (GV.PO): Organizational cybersecurity policy is established, communicated, and
enforced
o GV.PO-01: Policy for managing cybersecurity risks is established based on organizational
context, cybersecurity strategy, and priorities and is communicated and enforced
o GV.PO-02: Policy for managing cybersecurity risks is reviewed, updated, communicated,
and enforced to reflect changes in requirements, threats, technology, and
organizational mission

•

Oversight (GV.OV): Results of organization-wide cybersecurity risk management activities
and performance are used to inform, improve, and adjust the risk management strategy
o GV.OV-01: Cybersecurity risk management strategy outcomes are reviewed to inform
and adjust strategy and direction
o GV.OV-02: The cybersecurity risk management strategy is reviewed and adjusted to
ensure coverage of organizational requirements and risks
o GV.OV-03: Organizational cybersecurity risk management performance is evaluated and
reviewed for adjustments needed

•

Cybersecurity Supply Chain Risk Management (GV.SC): Cyber supply chain risk
management processes are identified, established, managed, monitored, and improved by
organizational stakeholders
o GV.SC-01: A cybersecurity supply chain risk management program, strategy, objectives,
policies, and processes are established and agreed to by organizational stakeholders
o GV.SC-02: Cybersecurity roles and responsibilities for suppliers, customers, and partners
are established, communicated, and coordinated internally and externally
o GV.SC-03: Cybersecurity supply chain risk management is integrated into cybersecurity
and enterprise risk management, risk assessment, and improvement processes
o GV.SC-04: Suppliers are known and prioritized by criticality

17

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

o GV.SC-05: Requirements to address cybersecurity risks in supply chains are established,
prioritized, and integrated into contracts and other types of agreements with suppliers
and other relevant third parties
o GV.SC-06: Planning and due diligence are performed to reduce risks before entering into
formal supplier or other third-party relationships
o GV.SC-07: The risks posed by a supplier, their products and services, and other third
parties are understood, recorded, prioritized, assessed, responded to, and monitored
over the course of the relationship
o GV.SC-08: Relevant suppliers and other third parties are included in incident planning,
response, and recovery activities
o GV.SC-09: Supply chain security practices are integrated into cybersecurity and
enterprise risk management programs, and their performance is monitored throughout
the technology product and service life cycle
o GV.SC-10: Cybersecurity supply chain risk management plans include provisions for
activities that occur after the conclusion of a partnership or service agreement

IDENTIFY (ID): The organization’s current cybersecurity risks are understood
•

Asset Management (ID.AM): Assets (e.g., data, hardware, software, systems, facilities,
services, people) that enable the organization to achieve business purposes are identified
and managed consistent with their relative importance to organizational objectives and the
organization’s risk strategy
o ID.AM-01: Inventories of hardware managed by the organization are maintained
o ID.AM-02: Inventories of software, services, and systems managed by the organization
are maintained
o ID.AM-03: Representations of the organization’s authorized network communication
and internal and external network data flows are maintained
o ID.AM-04: Inventories of services provided by suppliers are maintained
o ID.AM-05: Assets are prioritized based on classification, criticality, resources, and
impact on the mission
o ID.AM-07: Inventories of data and corresponding metadata for designated data types
are maintained
o ID.AM-08: Systems, hardware, software, services, and data are managed throughout
their life cycles

•

Risk Assessment (ID.RA): The cybersecurity risk to the organization, assets, and individuals
is understood by the organization
o ID.RA-01: Vulnerabilities in assets are identified, validated, and recorded
18

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

o ID.RA-02: Cyber threat intelligence is received from information sharing forums and
sources
o ID.RA-03: Internal and external threats to the organization are identified and recorded
o ID.RA-04: Potential impacts and likelihoods of threats exploiting vulnerabilities are
identified and recorded
o ID.RA-05: Threats, vulnerabilities, likelihoods, and impacts are used to understand
inherent risk and inform risk response prioritization
o ID.RA-06: Risk responses are chosen, prioritized, planned, tracked, and communicated
o ID.RA-07: Changes and exceptions are managed, assessed for risk impact, recorded, and
tracked
o ID.RA-08: Processes for receiving, analyzing, and responding to vulnerability disclosures
are established
o ID.RA-09: The authenticity and integrity of hardware and software are assessed prior to
acquisition and use
o ID.RA-10: Critical suppliers are assessed prior to acquisition
•

Improvement (ID.IM): Improvements to organizational cybersecurity risk management
processes, procedures and activities are identified across all CSF Functions
o ID.IM-01: Improvements are identified from evaluations
o ID.IM-02: Improvements are identified from security tests and exercises, including those
done in coordination with suppliers and relevant third parties
o ID.IM-03: Improvements are identified from execution of operational processes,
procedures, and activities
o ID.IM-04: Incident response plans and other cybersecurity plans that affect operations
are established, communicated, maintained, and improved

PROTECT (PR): Safeguards to manage the organization’s cybersecurity risks are used
•

Identity Management, Authentication, and Access Control (PR.AA): Access to physical and
logical assets is limited to authorized users, services, and hardware and managed
commensurate with the assessed risk of unauthorized access
o PR.AA-01: Identities and credentials for authorized users, services, and hardware are
managed by the organization
o PR.AA-02: Identities are proofed and bound to credentials based on the context of
interactions
o PR.AA-03: Users, services, and hardware are authenticated
o PR.AA-04: Identity assertions are protected, conveyed, and verified
19

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

o PR.AA-05: Access permissions, entitlements, and authorizations are defined in a policy,
managed, enforced, and reviewed, and incorporate the principles of least privilege and
separation of duties
o PR.AA-06: Physical access to assets is managed, monitored, and enforced
commensurate with risk
•

Awareness and Training (PR.AT): The organization’s personnel are provided with
cybersecurity awareness and training so that they can perform their cybersecurity-related
tasks
o PR.AT-01: Personnel are provided with awareness and training so that they possess the
knowledge and skills to perform general tasks with cybersecurity risks in mind
o PR.AT-02: Individuals in specialized roles are provided with awareness and training so
that they possess the knowledge and skills to perform relevant tasks with cybersecurity
risks in mind

•

Data Security (PR.DS): Data are managed consistent with the organization’s risk strategy to
protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information
o PR.DS-01: The confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data-at-rest are protected
o PR.DS-02: The confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data-in-transit are protected
o PR.DS-10: The confidentiality, integrity, and availability of data-in-use are protected
o PR.DS-11: Backups of data are created, protected, maintained, and tested

•

Platform Security (PR.PS): The hardware, software (e.g., firmware, operating systems,
applications), and services of physical and virtual platforms are managed consistent with
the organization’s risk strategy to protect their confidentiality, integrity, and availability
o PR.PS-01: Configuration management practices are established and applied
o PR.PS-02: Software is maintained, replaced, and removed commensurate with risk
o PR.PS-03: Hardware is maintained, replaced, and removed commensurate with risk
o PR.PS-04: Log records are generated and made available for continuous monitoring
o PR.PS-05: Installation and execution of unauthorized software are prevented
o PR.PS-06: Secure software development practices are integrated, and their performance
is monitored throughout the software development life cycle

•

Technology Infrastructure Resilience (PR.IR): Security architectures are managed with the
organization’s risk strategy to protect asset confidentiality, integrity, and availability, and
organizational resilience
o PR.IR-01: Networks and environments are protected from unauthorized logical access
and usage

20

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

o PR.IR-02: The organization’s technology assets are protected from environmental
threats
o PR.IR-03: Mechanisms are implemented to achieve resilience requirements in normal
and adverse situations
o PR.IR-04: Adequate resource capacity to ensure availability is maintained

DETECT (DE): Possible cybersecurity attacks and compromises are found and analyzed
•

Continuous Monitoring (DE.CM): Assets are monitored to find anomalies, indicators of
compromise, and other potentially adverse events
o DE.CM-01: Networks and network services are monitored to find potentially adverse
events
o DE.CM-02: The physical environment is monitored to find potentially adverse events
o DE.CM-03: Personnel activity and technology usage are monitored to find potentially
adverse events
o DE.CM-06: External service provider activities and services are monitored to find
potentially adverse events
o DE.CM-09: Computing hardware and software, runtime environments, and their data
are monitored to find potentially adverse events

•

Adverse Event Analysis (DE.AE): Anomalies, indicators of compromise, and other
potentially adverse events are analyzed to characterize the events and detect cybersecurity
incidents
o DE.AE-02: Potentially adverse events are analyzed to better understand associated
activities
o DE.AE-03: Information is correlated from multiple sources
o DE.AE-04: The estimated impact and scope of adverse events are understood
o DE.AE-06: Information on adverse events is provided to authorized staff and tools
o DE.AE-07: Cyber threat intelligence and other contextual information are integrated into
the analysis
o DE.AE-08: Incidents are declared when adverse events meet the defined incident
criteria

21

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

RESPOND (RS): Actions regarding a detected cybersecurity incident are taken
•

Incident Management (RS.MA): Responses to detected cybersecurity incidents are
managed
o RS.MA-01: The incident response plan is executed in coordination with relevant third
parties once an incident is declared
o RS.MA-02: Incident reports are triaged and validated
o RS.MA-03: Incidents are categorized and prioritized
o RS.MA-04: Incidents are escalated or elevated as needed
o RS.MA-05: The criteria for initiating incident recovery are applied

•

Incident Analysis (RS.AN): Investigations are conducted to ensure effective response and
support forensics and recovery activities
o RS.AN-03: Analysis is performed to establish what has taken place during an incident
and the root cause of the incident
o RS.AN-06: Actions performed during an investigation are recorded, and the records’
integrity and provenance are preserved
o RS.AN-07: Incident data and metadata are collected, and their integrity and provenance
are preserved
o RS.AN-08: An incident’s magnitude is estimated and validated

•

Incident Response Reporting and Communication (RS.CO): Response activities are
coordinated with internal and external stakeholders as required by laws, regulations, or
policies
o RS.CO-02: Internal and external stakeholders are notified of incidents
o RS.CO-03: Information is shared with designated internal and external stakeholders

•

Incident Mitigation (RS.MI): Activities are performed to prevent expansion of an event and
mitigate its effects
o RS.MI-01: Incidents are contained
o RS.MI-02: Incidents are eradicated

RECOVER (RC): Assets and operations affected by a cybersecurity incident are restored
•

Incident Recovery Plan Execution (RC.RP): Restoration activities are performed to ensure
operational availability of systems and services affected by cybersecurity incidents
o RC.RP-01: The recovery portion of the incident response plan is executed once initiated
from the incident response process
22

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

o RC.RP-02: Recovery actions are selected, scoped, prioritized, and performed
o RC.RP-03: The integrity of backups and other restoration assets is verified before using
them for restoration
o RC.RP-04: Critical mission functions and cybersecurity risk management are considered
to establish post-incident operational norms
o RC.RP-05: The integrity of restored assets is verified, systems and services are restored,
and normal operating status is confirmed
o RC.RP-06: The end of incident recovery is declared based on criteria, and incidentrelated documentation is completed
•

Incident Recovery Communication (RC.CO): Restoration activities are coordinated with
internal and external parties
o RC.CO-03: Recovery activities and progress in restoring operational capabilities are
communicated to designated internal and external stakeholders
o RC.CO-04: Public updates on incident recovery are shared using approved methods and
messaging

23

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Appendix B. CSF Tiers
Table 2 contains a notional illustration of the CSF Tiers discussed in Sec. 3. The Tiers
characterize the rigor of an organization’s cybersecurity risk governance practices (GOVERN) and
cybersecurity risk management practices (IDENTIFY, PROTECT, DETECT, RESPOND, and RECOVER).
Table 2. Notional Illustration of the CSF Tiers

Tier
Tier 1:
Partial

Cybersecurity Risk Governance

Cybersecurity Risk Management

Application of the organizational
cybersecurity risk strategy is managed
in an ad hoc manner.

There is limited awareness of cybersecurity risks at the
organizational level.

Prioritization is ad hoc and not
formally based on objectives or threat
environment.

The organization implements cybersecurity risk
management on an irregular, case-by-case basis.
The organization may not have processes that enable
cybersecurity information to be shared within the
organization.
The organization is generally unaware of the
cybersecurity risks associated with its suppliers and the
products and services it acquires and uses.

Tier 2: Risk
Informed

Risk management practices are
approved by management but may
not be established as organizationwide policy.

There is an awareness of cybersecurity risks at the
organizational level, but an organization-wide approach
to managing cybersecurity risks has not been
established.

The prioritization of cybersecurity
activities and protection needs is
directly informed by organizational
risk objectives, the threat
environment, or business/mission
requirements.

Consideration of cybersecurity in organizational
objectives and programs may occur at some but not all
levels of the organization. Cyber risk assessment of
organizational and external assets occurs but is not
typically repeatable or reoccurring.
Cybersecurity information is shared within the
organization on an informal basis.
The organization is aware of the cybersecurity risks
associated with its suppliers and the products and
services it acquires and uses, but it does not act
consistently or formally in response to those risks.

Tier 3:
Repeatable

The organization’s risk management
practices are formally approved and
expressed as policy.

There is an organization-wide approach to managing
cybersecurity risks. Cybersecurity information is
routinely shared throughout the organization.

Risk-informed policies, processes, and
procedures are defined, implemented
as intended, and reviewed.

Consistent methods are in place to respond effectively
to changes in risk. Personnel possess the knowledge and
skills to perform their appointed roles and
responsibilities.

Organizational cybersecurity practices
are regularly updated based on the
application of risk management
processes to changes in
business/mission requirements,
threats, and technological landscape.

The organization consistently and accurately monitors
the cybersecurity risks of assets. Senior cybersecurity
and non-cybersecurity executives communicate
regularly regarding cybersecurity risks. Executives
ensure that cybersecurity is considered through all lines
of operation in the organization.

24

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024
Tier

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0
Cybersecurity Risk Governance

Cybersecurity Risk Management
The organization risk strategy is informed by the
cybersecurity risks associated with its suppliers and the
products and services it acquires and uses. Personnel
formally act upon those risks through mechanisms such
as written agreements to communicate baseline
requirements, governance structures (e.g., risk councils),
and policy implementation and monitoring. These
actions are implemented consistently and as intended
and are continuously monitored and reviewed.

Tier 4:
Adaptive

There is an organization-wide
approach to managing cybersecurity
risks that uses risk-informed policies,
processes, and procedures to address
potential cybersecurity events. The
relationship between cybersecurity
risks and organizational objectives is
clearly understood and considered
when making decisions. Executives
monitor cybersecurity risks in the
same context as financial and other
organizational risks. The organizational
budget is based on an understanding
of the current and predicted risk
environment and risk tolerance.
Business units implement executive
vision and analyze system-level risks in
the context of the organizational risk
tolerances.

The organization adapts its cybersecurity practices
based on previous and current cybersecurity activities,
including lessons learned and predictive indicators.
Through a process of continuous improvement that
incorporates advanced cybersecurity technologies and
practices, the organization actively adapts to a changing
technological landscape and responds in a timely and
effective manner to evolving, sophisticated threats.
The organization uses real-time or near real-time
information to understand and consistently act upon the
cybersecurity risks associated with its suppliers and the
products and services it acquires and uses.
Cybersecurity information is constantly shared
throughout the organization and with authorized third
parties.

Cybersecurity risk management is part
of the organizational culture. It
evolves from an awareness of previous
activities and continuous awareness of
activities on organizational systems
and networks. The organization can
quickly and efficiently account for
changes to business/mission
objectives in how risk is approached
and communicated.

25

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Appendix C. Glossary
CSF Category
A group of related cybersecurity outcomes that collectively comprise a CSF Function.
CSF Community Profile
A baseline of CSF outcomes that is created and published to address shared interests and goals among a number of
organizations. A Community Profile is typically developed for a particular sector, subsector, technology, threat
type, or other use case. An organization can use a Community Profile as the basis for its own Target Profile.
CSF Core
A taxonomy of high-level cybersecurity outcomes that can help any organization manage its cybersecurity risks. Its
components are a hierarchy of Functions, Categories, and Subcategories that detail each outcome.
CSF Current Profile
A part of an Organizational Profile that specifies the Core outcomes that an organization is currently achieving (or
attempting to achieve) and characterizes how or to what extent each outcome is being achieved.
CSF Function
The highest level of organization for cybersecurity outcomes. There are six CSF Functions: Govern, Identify,
Protect, Detect, Respond, and Recover.
CSF Implementation Example
A concise, action-oriented, notional illustration of a way to help achieve a CSF Core outcome.
CSF Informative Reference
A mapping that indicates a relationship between a CSF Core outcome and an existing standard, guideline,
regulation, or other content.
CSF Organizational Profile
A mechanism for describing an organization’s current and/or target cybersecurity posture in terms of the CSF
Core’s outcomes.
CSF Quick Start Guide
A supplementary resource that gives brief, actionable guidance on specific CSF-related topics.
CSF Subcategory
A group of more specific outcomes of technical and management cybersecurity activities that comprise a CSF
Category.
CSF Target Profile
A part of an Organizational Profile that specifies the desired Core outcomes that an organization has selected and
prioritized for achieving its cybersecurity risk management objectives.
CSF Tier
A characterization of the rigor of an organization’s cybersecurity risk governance and management practices.
There are four Tiers: Partial (Tier 1), Risk Informed (Tier 2), Repeatable (Tier 3), and Adaptive (Tier 4).

26

NIST CSWP 29
February 26, 2024

The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0

Certain commercial equipment, instruments, software, or materials, commercial or non-commercial, are identified
in this paper in order to specify the experimental procedure adequately. Such identification does not imply
recommendation or endorsement of any product or service by NIST, nor does it imply that the materials or
equipment identified are necessarily the best available for the purpose.
NIST Technical Series Policies
Copyright, Use, and Licensing Statements
NIST Technical Series Publication Identifier Syntax
How to Cite this NIST Technical Series Publication:
National Institute of Standards and Technology (2024) The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) 2.0. (National
Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD), NIST Cybersecurity White Paper (CSWP) NIST CSWP 29.
https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.CSWP.29
Contact Information
cyberframework@nist.gov
National Institute of Standards and Technology
Attn: Applied Cybersecurity Division, Information Technology Laboratory
100 Bureau Drive (Mail Stop 2000) Gaithersburg, MD 20899-2000
All comments are subject to release under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).

27

